Apple Announces News App for iPhone & iPad
Delivers News in a Beautiful & Uncluttered Format

SAN FRANCISCO — 8 June 2015 — Apple® today unveiled an all-new News app delivering the best news reading experience on any mobile device. Available with iOS 9 this spring for iPhone® and iPad®, News combines the visually rich layout of a magazine with the immediacy and customisation of digital media. News follows over a million topics and pulls relevant stories based on your specific interests that can be easily shared or saved for later — without compromising your privacy. News is powered by the new custom-designed Apple News Format™, a digital publishing format that allows publishers to create beautiful layouts.

“News seamlessly delivers the articles you want to read in a beautiful and uncluttered format, while respecting your privacy, because Apple doesn’t share your personal data,” said Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet Software and Services. “We already have nearly 20 publishers representing more than 50 titles joining us, including Condé Nast, ESPN, The New York Times, Hearst, Time Inc., CNN and Bloomberg.”

News conveniently collects all the stories you want to read in one place, in a customised newsfeed called For You. Readers can see the publisher channels and topics they’re following in Favourites, and to discover new content, Explore makes great suggestions based on what you’ve already read. The more you read, the more personalised the News app becomes, refining the selection of stories delivered to your iPhone or iPad.

Apple News Format allows publishers to create stories that look beautiful and take advantage of the full power of iOS. Content can include photos and galleries, audio, video, maps and rich interactions such as parallax and animation. When publishers create their stories for News, content comes alive with custom fonts and intuitive Multi-Touch™ gestures. Apple News Format automatically customises the layout for each screen size, so News content looks great on both iPhone and iPad.

“Condé Nast’s premium content deserves a premium mobile experience and the News app delivers that,” said Bob Sauerberg, President of Condé Nast. “News offers an environment that combines the rich, immersive design of our photography, artwork and editorial expertise with the interactivity and dynamism of digital media — it’s stunning.”

“ESPN fans are incredibly engaged in the way they consume our content, so the more vibrant experience we can offer, the happier they’ll be,” said John Skipper, President of ESPN Inc. and Co-Chairman of Disney Media Networks. “We’ve seen incredible success with our ESPN apps on iOS, and News is only going to make a richer, more personal experience for our readers so they can stay up-to-date on the sports news that matters to them.”

Publishers interested in signing up can visit www.icloud.com/newspublisher with additional publishing tools available later this year. iOS 9 will be available this spring as a free software update for iPhone 4s and later, iPod touch® 5th generation, iPad 2 and later, iPad mini™ and later. Features are subject to change. Some features may not be available in all regions or all languages.

Apple revolutionised personal technology with the introduction of the Macintosh in 1984. Today, Apple leads the world in innovation with iPhone, iPad, the Mac and Apple Watch. Apple’s three software platforms — iOS, OS X and watchOS — provide seamless experiences across all Apple devices and empower people with breakthrough services including the App Store, Apple Music, Apple Pay and iCloud. Apple’s 100,000 employees are dedicated to making the best products on earth, and to leaving the world better than we found it.